Lighting Talks
==============

Write Tighter, Revisited
------------------------

:Author: Marcia Johnston, @MarciaRJohnston,
         http://howtowriteeverything.com/

Gave a talk last year, "Write Tighter", and she wanted people to
remember one thing: **see be-verbs**. (Not beavers.) "be", "was", "has
been", "will be", "will have", "been having". Those are a flag that
your writing can be tightened up, made more concise, made more
engaging, and clarified.

But why?

It's cheaper! Translations cost $0.25/word/language, so getting rid of
"be-verbs" means you pay less. And you *will* be translating if you're
remotely successful.

And it makes your writing more readable.

Test the Docs
-------------

:Author: Dirk Myers

Partnering with other startups to use their SDK to develop
applications to spec. This lets them effectively pilot the new user
experience. What they've found is that the bugs filed aren't at all
what they expected. You *know* about prolems in your product that you
think users will report, but they don't. They want to know *what's
next*. So now they write the docs *first*. They write a doc, show it
to customers, and ask what they'd do next, what questions they have,
etc. And this is leading to increased customer happiness with
documentation and reduced support costs.


Open Source Documentation, The Hard Way
---------------------------------------

:Author: Anne Gentle, http://justclickwrite.com/

"I'm a unicorn: an extroverted technical writer."

Half of the Open Stack documentation was written by 3 writers. Six
months later, another half was written by 7 writers. That was a lot of
work. But there were 130 documentation contributors overall. And when
there are 910 overall Open Stack contributors, you have to wonder: am
I getting the right contributors?

Ran a book sprint to write a 200 page book in a week. Flew in
contributors who'd been operating Open Stack at scale for six months
or more, and wrote *the guide* to Open Stack. And then O'Reilly asked
if they could publish it (now 300 pages), since they were having
trouble finding qualified authors. And now they've produced an Open
Stack security guide, as well.

Applying developer techniques to documentation.


Write, Measure, Repeat
----------------------

:Author: Dan Stevens

New to Atlassian, working on BitBucket. And they're trying to change
how they think about information solutions. One thing he doesn't think
Atlassian does very well is measure results for documentation. So they
asked themselves, "How do we measure success with documentation? And
how do we make that repeatable?" Beyond just writing something
technically accurate, what are we trying to achieve?

"In the documentation, can we lead them from the software, to the
docs, and back, to acheive a specific feature adoption?"

So now they're rewriting tutorials, and measuring how many people are
entering documentation, and then acheiving some business goal. [NB:
Conversions.]

Measuring conversion lets you talk about documentation as more than
just a cost center.

EPUB in a Nutshell
------------------

:Author: Chuck, @chuckdude

[Former O'Reilly editor]

EPUB is a website, packed in a folder, with some XML files. To "do"
EPUB, you need to be comfortable with HTML, CSS, and some light XML.
What EPUB? It's portable, searchable, bookmarkable; you can *copy and
paste*. PDF -- the "pretty dead format" -- is the bane of a lot of
documentarian's experiences. It's great for presentation and dead
trees, *not* for sharing.

How do you learn EPUB? Look at the source. Just ``unzip`` any EPUB
file.

[Demo of what an EPUB contains.]

EPUB is pretty simple, and it's incredibly powerful.

EPUB is managed by the IDPF (International Documentation Publishing
Forum).
