Communities Are Awesome
=======================

:Authors: Ali Spivak
:Time: 10:00 - 10:20
:Session:
:Link:

Works for Mozilla, which some people may not be aware is a non-profit,
mission-driven company. Here today to talk about community. As a
non-profit, Mozilla relies on their "huge" network of volunteers --
their community -- to actually make things happen. Ali is responsible
for the Mozilla Developer Network, the MDN. MDN is a wiki that the
community uses to document "everything that matters to web
developers", as well as information about Mozilla products. That's a
lot of of information to document, and MDN is really big. MDN has
about 2MM users per month, 35 languages, and 11K articles. Things
don't stay the same for long, so there's a lot of change to manage.
MDN has 5 paid writers, althogh they do a lot more than writing: every
one of them works with and for the community.

The community is critical to MDN's success. The community writes,
edits, fixes typos, and translates content (user experience for the site,
as well as articles). MDN also holds doc sprints where they get a
group of writers together for a day or more, and everyone writes.

But more important than all this work, the community provides MDN with
an amazing amount of diversity and perspectives. People in San
Francisco may not think of low bandwidth as a topic to document, but
the community of writers, programmers, and users around the world help
push that forward as a topic that's important.

It's also interesting that MDN, for being so open, gets a very small
amount of spam and malicious edits. Part of that may be a result of
the fact that it's somewhat of a niche site. But it also seems like
people treat the site with an amount of respect and responsibility to
the site and their *peers*.

So you have this community; how do you get them to do what you want?
You don't. Their not minions. They're a special herd of awesome cats.
They're partners.

"The idea of commnunity may simple come down to supporting and
interacting positively with other individuals who share a vested
interest."

So why do people spend their time doing something they're not
compensated for, that's not their "job"? It turns out that intrinsic
motivation is really important to lots of people: autonomy, gaining
mastery, and [something else I didn't write down in time] provide
people with a lot of satisfaction, and volunteering on MDN helps them
achieve that.

You also see this in things like Burning Man, huge events that are
volunteer run. One of their principles is **Participation**. Everyone
is expected to participate to help make the event successful. Mozilla
has principles, as well, and they also emphasize transparency,
community, and engagement.

It turns out it matters less what the principles are, you just need to
have them, so that your community understands there's something
bigger, that they're not just minions.
