The New Sheriff in Town: Bringing Documentation Out of Chaos
============================================================

:Authors: Heidi Waterhouse
:Time: 10:20 - 10:40
:Session: http://docs.writethedocs.org/2014/na/talks/#heidi-waterhouse-the-new-sheriff-in-town-bringing-documentation-out-of-chaos
:Link:

Technical documentarian of almost 20 years, and here to talk about the
chaotic environment and how to bring some order out of it. By the time
people get to this point in their career, most people have specialized
in something; she's specialized in coming into organizations as their
first documentarian.

So how does this work? Well first, you need a Star. And the only Star
you're going to get is that you got a job: you convinced a hiring
manager that you could do the job, that you could handle their thorny
problems. And no one is going to give you anything else. So you have
to get over your imposter syndrome.

And then you set up shop. When you roll into town, people will show
you around. But you probably won't remember any of that, so make your
own map/seating chart of people and documentation. So that when
someone says, "Hey, Janet knows about SQL, ask here," you're able to
approach Janet confidently. And there's almost certainly existing
documentation, no matter how ill maintained. And while you're waiting
on your laptop, provisioning, whatever, get to know the neighborhood:
read the docs of your competition, of others in your domain.
Understand the lay of the land.

Once you start writing, you have no time for frills. You need to draw
fast. Polish and precision (formatting, localization, etc) will happen
between emergencies. Deliver early, deliver often, or talk about why
you can't deliver. Early/often delivery helps demonstrate why this
documentation thing is important. The polish and precision is
important, but it doesn't matter if you don't put out the fire first.

And now you're going to save the townspeople: find the biggest pain
point you can address and take care of it. Maybe it's just a PDF form
that customer support doesn't know is possible. It helps others, gets
them on your side, *and* quiets your internal imposter syndrome. You
also need to give others a way to ask questions and communicate with
you. A bug tracker is a great way to handle this, and gives you a
punch list to work down on days when writing feels like too much.

You'll also often find scorpions: documentation hoarded in
inaccessible tools, or a disorganized manner. The people who are
hoarding are vigilantes: they care about documentation, but they're
operating outside the law, so you want to deputize them and bring them
into the "official" documentation project.

Finally, it's important to build infrastructure. Once the fires are
out, it's important to provide some structure for continued success.
This means templates, release notes, etc; make sure that documentation
is part of the process for new code, new features, etc. That ensures
that it becomes part of the long term success of the organization.
