Don’t Write Documentation
=========================

:Authors: James Pearson
:Time: 9:40 - 10:00
:Session: http://docs.writethedocs.org/2014/na/talks/#james-pearson-don-t-write-documentation
:Link: http://changedmy.name/talk--dont-write-documentation/

As you may have guessed by the title, James is not a writer. But the
scraggly beard and EFF sweatshirt indicate that he *is* a sysadmin
[for iFixIt], and as such documentation is just about making sure you
don't miss any steps. iFixIt is a wiki-based platform that lets any
user write documentation and step-by-step guides to repair anything.

So why *shouldn't* you write documentation? Because good
documentation's worst enemy is bad documentation. The programmers who
James hangs out with *hate* documentation; they *assume* that it's
going to be wrong, so they don't even try to read it. For example, the
image processing library they were using to annotate images had many,
many bugs. Upgrading fixed some and introduced others. The take away
was that that library is crap. But the take away when we see bad
*documentation*, is that *all* documentation is bad. We don't treat
documentation like software (where we might think this *particular*
piece of software is crap): we're numb to documentation.

See also: broken window syndrome. When you see bad documentation, it
tells you that lax standards are acceptable for this project or
product.

So what sort of documentation is awful?

Autogenerated documentation can be awful.

The Perl "Camel" book is a joy to read, and it instructs us on the
Three Virtues of a Programmer.

- Laziness
- Impatience
- Hubris

Laziness is the one that causes pain. Tools like Javadoc are often
abused: just because your tool can extract documentation doesn't mean
that the documentation is going to appropriately communicate content
to other users.

Poka-Yoke -- "mistake proofing".

A Toyota engineer realized that people will always make mistakes
(because we're human), but mistakes don't have to become defects.
Poka-yoke refers to designing a tool or product in a way that prevents
mistakes from becoming defects. (See http://pokayoke.wikispaces.com/
for examples.) The solution to many defects is not documentation, but
changing the product or software.
